---
layout: page
title: About
sidebar_link: true
---


## Resume CV

André Luiz Maciel Santana is a researcher at UNIVALI (Universidade do Vale de Itajaí) since 2014 and his work is focused in Engineering and Computer Science Applied at Health & Education. Furthermore, he also teaches Algorithms and Programming, Mechanics of Materials, System Modeling and Discrete Simulation in Mechanical Engineering, Production Engineering and Computer Science.

He holds a degree in Industrial Mechanical Engineering (from 2009 to 2013), with specialization in Production Engineering (from 2013 to 2014) and had completed a Master in Applied Computing (from 2014 to 2015) at the Universidade do Vale do Itajaí, which allowed him to approach the areas of robotics, education and students development based on their personal trajectories and how to respect it.

During the year of 2017, he have been chosen as a member of the Special Committee on Informatics in Education (an organization of Brazilian Computer Society in which ten teachers from all over Brazil are chosen to discuss about informatics in public education). As an active member of the Creative Learning network (an MIT project in Brazil that has the objective of allowing public school teachers to get in touch with information in groups based in all Brazil’s regions). He is co-creator and coordinator of Project "Tem Ideia na Rede" (in Partnership with Leo Burd - MIT Media Lab - LifeLong Kindergarten and Creative Learning Network), which achieved about 28 schools of the municipal education network in 2016 with the keypoint of allowing public school students to develop their own projects related to Computer Science and even interact with each other in a platform created specifically for science knowledge sharing and it still in progress in 2017 (see more in www.temideianarede.com.br).

Currently is a Co-Coordinator of the Innovation on Technology in Education Laboratory (LITE) (UNIVALI) and participates in projects such as Portugol Studio since 2013 until now (a tool for students to learn how to programming translated all in portuguese and which is the most used in Brazil and portuguese speakers countries), Lite is Cool since 2014 until now,  RoPE since 2013 until now as researcher and advisor (RoPE is a project in which we have created a cheap wooden robot to help kids in the kindergarten to get in touch with Computer Science), Lite Maker since 2015 until 2016 (His MIT project in which he have received R$20000 to build mobile station able to turn any room into a Lab and allow students to develop personal projects see more https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KX2vlSphunk).

During the year of 2017 guided a series of initiatives to bring the family closer to the school, using programming technology as an engagement strategy. Examples include Scratch Jr: a family play (first edition in partnership with Marina Bers from Tufts University, an ex-alumna of MIT - Media Lab that had a second part in which they adapted the program to brazilian reality), activities with the toys of programming RoPE in public schools (early childhood centers) and activities involving the maker culture with the elderly community.

In addition to the projects mentioned above, it seeks to associate digital and tangible technologies to support other projects related to education and health. In the year of 2017 he developed researches (i) using Brain-Computer Interface to identify man-machine interaction alternatives; (ii) investigated interfaces for programmable toys (by sound, digital and by brainwave control); (iii) investigated alternative methodologies for teaching engineering skills in early childhood education (students evaluation approach) with the use of Nickelodeon Brazil’s animations such as Dora the explorer and Blaze and the Monster Machines; (iv) guided and assisted in the development of MODS in Minecraft for programming teaching (by Scratch Interface), and (v) initiated the development of a programming toy (physical version based on the Scratch Jr experience) to integrate creativity, arts and programming into tangible medium. 

Also, André investigates alternative technologies and methodologies for the development of modeling skills in engineering in higher education, using the Bifocal Modeling approach that was created by partner Paulo Blikstein from Stanford University. He also participates in the Bifocal Modeling project as a researcher, assisting in the development of the tools and computational models that will be used during the activities with UNIVALI - High School students.

In the area of ​​health, he has researches about detection of Breast Cancer in mammograms. Supervised and guided the design of a hand prosthesis for people with arm and hands amputation. Currently he is developing a simulator to support in-silicon tests to replace in-life animal tests in partnership with UNIVALI Nutrition Course. He have achieved positive preliminary results in the Brain Pattern Detection Analysis as a low-cost man-machine interaction alternative.

To conclude, he have participated in the strategy team of the UNIVALI’s Master Plan for the next 8 years, optimizating the process of decision-making with technology and studies instead of only opinions and feelings. He have presented guidelines for creating new living spaces and green areas in the Campus. The main focus about this work is discovering how to integrate people and buildings to turn the university into a friendly, human and also technological place.